# 3.0 changes

3.0 has many breaking and other qualify of life changes. Therefore some 2.0
macro codes will not work with 3.0 version of r4d.

## Library name changes

Library name has changed from rad to **r4d**. This is due to a cargo
recommenation(or say warning) to separate library and binary names. Previously
the names were both rad.

## New rado binary for better experience

New binary rado is now included in procects. Rado's goal is to provide easier
way to edit and read macro files. You can edit a file as unprocessed form and
read a file as a processed form.

Refer [usage](./usage.md) for rado usage.

## Sensible comma parsing inside parenthesis

Prevoiusly an argument parser interpreted any commas as delimter. From 3.0, it
has changed into sensible default behaviour by ignoring them within pair of
parenthesis. For example the following commands didn't work in 2.0.

```
$ifelse(true,
    $index(1,a,b,c)
    $index(2,a,b,c)
)
===
% This didn't work becuase ifelse thought '$index(1' was a second argument
```

To avoid this, explicit literal quote was required and yet it didn't work any
better. For the release candidate stage, a new macro strip was added to
circumvent this ( which is differnt from previous strip macro ). However to
achieve general user's expectance, argument parser's logic has changed. Now the
previous code will work without literal quote.

## Anonymous function

Now you can define anonymous function that is used only for a scope which is
handy for some cases such as one liner macro execution.

```bash
cat test | rad --pipe -L '$mapl($anon(l=$cut(:,4,$l())$nl()),$-())'
```

## "For" macro ergonomics

This was already possible with "for\_macro" feature. From 3.0, for macros
register a local macro named ```:``` which can be invoked with ```$:()```.
Prevoiusly, for macro replaced $: string with iterated values, which worked
pretty well but nested for loop was inconsistent. With newer implemenation,
local macro ```:``` is executed according to local context thus enabling
consistent nested loop.

```
$forloop^($:() - \*$forloop($:(),1,5)*\$nl(),1,5)
===
1 - 12345
2 - 12345
3 - 12345
4 - 12345
5 - 12345
```

## Non-existent file input is an error

Previously rad binary automatcially expanded input argument as literal text
when the given input was not a valid file. Now this triggers an error and
explicit flag ```--literal, -L``` is required to interpret argument as literal
text.

## Error behaviours ( Nopanic flag removed )

Previously error levels were divided into strict,lenient,purge,nopanic. However
logics in between was not consistent and made error logs unexpectable. From 3.0
nopanic flag is removed, and purge or lenient will prevent panics from both
runtime and function macros.

There are misc changes to error loggings and strict panics, ETC.

## Macro execution order

Previously macro execution order was following,

- Deterred
- Local
- Runtime
- Function

From 3.0, macro execution order follows new order

- Local
- Runtime
- Deterred
- Function

So that user can easily override deterred macros if they want.

## Feature simplification

Many features are now hidden from user, because those features were enabled by
other features anyway while making docs harder to read.

Some features such as csv or lipsum has been ditched in favor of other simpler
crates or pure in-built implemenation.

Storage has been merged to default r4d logic because it had very low overhead
and made code maintenance hard with litle gain. There is also a possbility to
add "hook" as default feature but it adds some overhead so not decidable at the
moment.

## Storage method signature changed

Previously storage accepted Vector of string, not it accepts array of string
(&[String]) for better compatibility;

## Many breaking macro changes

With 3.0, many macros' arguments order changed, some macros were removed and
some macros names' were changed.

The rationals are,

- An argument that can highly contain commas should come the last for usability
- Macro name that doesn't represent its behaviour should be changed to avoid
  confusion
- Macros that are rarely used and are mostly a name "squtting" should be
  removed

## Misc

There are also many miscellaneous changes. Such as

- Many new macros
- New rad feature
- Detailed documentation
- New library methods
- Bug fixes
